12/12/2024, Thursday:

Today I finished watching the video on collision that I began yesterday (refer to yesterday's post to see video). The remains of the video covered point collision and line collision. Point collision was detecting if the mouse was hovering over an object which I thought could be useful for buttons to change levels, difficulty, or other parts of my game. Although I felt like I could work with it as I figured out how to make something keep its status when collided to, I also thought pygame might have something else to help make button like features. Line collision was detecting whether an object and line collided. The video specifically made it so a line could be drawn with a mouse, and if the object was touched, it would change colors. Although I wasn't sure of how to implement it, I thought I could use that to bounce the ball when it hit a border, in the future. Overall, this video made me excited for the possible things I could do just with collision to make pong work.

After finishing the video, I started some coding in attempt to make pong. Although I wasn't sure how I was gonna code parts of the game such as the menu, "ai" to play against, and the physics around the ball bouncing, I started with what I DID know how to do. This included stuff like the paddles and movement that I had learned from the pygame tutorial video (more details on day 1 post). Then I realized I had small small but also big problems that I would need to solve in order to make the code work. An example of this was limiting the movement of the paddle to stay on the screen. Although this seemed very easy to me, I couldn't figure out how to do it. Because I initially define a x-position and y-position variable when creating the paddle, I thought I could just add an if-statement that caused that paddle to stop moving once the x-position would exceed the dimensions of the screen. However, this did not work at all, as the paddles that were moving freely completely lost its ability to move. Another issue I had was moving both paddles simultaneously. As 2-player mode is probably easier to start with, I decided to make one paddle be controlled with "ws" and the other with the arrow keys. I made my code an if statement with elif statements to check if the key pressed was any of the four. A very simplified version would be like this:

if "w" pressed:
    move paddle up
elif "s" pressed:
    move paddle down
    ...

However, I realized that this caused it so that only one key could be functioned at a time, which would be bad as both players need to be able to simultaneously move. After a while, I came up with a solution that worked but was not the best:

if "w" pressed:
    move paddle up
    elif up-arrow pressed:
        move paddle2 up
    elif down-arrow pressed:
        move paddle2 down
        ...

This causes a lot of branching which I know is not good which is why I am looking for a solution for it. 

I also found a pong tutorial ([https://youtu.be/Jsa7NmNtWTo?si=GSPM597kPmTzZoNV](url))that was split into different elements like set up, paddle, ball, bouncing, etc. and decided to watch the initial setup. To my surprise, most of the stuff that the guy in the video talked about was code that I already had made from my learning (proud moment). The video covered other stuff such as adding a margin and score, which I thought would be quite helpful in the future.

Finally I created a ball and added code so that it could be moved (which worked!). Just to simulate some pong-likeness, I made the ball go one direction until it hit the edge, causing it to go the other direction. This made me feel really confident that I could code a lot of this game on my own, with elements like bouncing.

My goal for the next few days are to continue add to my pong game. I would like to start each day trying new code for the game with my own knowledge and the help of pygame documentation. At the end of the day, I will refer to the youtube tutorial I found and refer to ONE of the sections and kind of "compare answers" to see what I could improve, add, or simplify.
