12/09/2024, Monday:

Today is the second day I am working on my Pong project.
I found a video discussing collisions ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHr9jxKithk&list=TLPQMTIxMjIwMjS21XCoXIu5FQ&index=4](url)) and was watching it learning about the different kinds of collisions and how to detect them. The three different kinds of collisions highlighted are rectangle collision (the collision of two rectangles), point collision (when something is clicked or hovered over), and line collision (the collision of a line and rectangle). While watching the video I updated my collab notebook (https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VfMLmCqn9-63QzjpqCAOrS26k-RhOVjt#scrollTo=SZC7tpuxur_D). I haven't finished watching the whole video, so my plan is to continue it tomorrow.

After writing down notes, I tried the code for myself and was able to get it to work. I feel somewhat confident about the collisions I learned today, as they are pretty straight forward with for loops and if-statements. I also learned how using the built in function collidelist(), you can return which object there was a collision with, which I was wondering how it would be used in game (probably not in pong though as the only collision is with the ball). I was also wondering how collision between rectangles and circles are going to work, as I need to detect collision from them for pong to work. I hope to look into this tomorrow.

One thing I realized I was struggling a bit with was the fact that I sometimes edited the wrong part of code. To explain, since the objects are defined, drawn, checked for collision, moved, etc. there were some times where I was in the wrong section of my code and changed something not meant to be changed. I think I can definetly improve my organization to prevent this in the future.

For the next day (hopefully tomorrow), I plan to continute with collision and hopefully move on the borders. I also plan to start on making my pong game, as I can make the shapes, move the paddles, and am learning collision and border. Other future goals include coding the physics of the ball (bouncing and spawning), adding text, and adding a menu. I also hope to be able to make the game have one player mode and two player mode.
