12/14/2024, Saturday

(Post was made late)

Today when I logged onto my code, I realized that I couldn't do anything. It actually took me some time to realize because the ball could move but the paddles would not, as it took user command to operate. After a couple of minutes of realizing that the problem was not my computer but the code, I tried figuring out what was the cause of the error. I tried removing some new code but that did not work, and it didn't make sense that the code from early would stop working when I've seen it work numerous times. Unsure, I decided to copy the exact code onto a new python file and run it. To my surprise, the file ran normally. This caused me a lot of confusion as it was the exact same code just in a different file, and it worked perfectly fine. I am still not sure why it occured, but I am just gonna believe that my python file got corrupted or broke somehow...

Anyways, after finally getting the code to run and having felt a lot of despair, I continued watching the pong tutorial I have been watching for the past few days (link on previous blogs). The video covered keeping score, the collision between the ball and paddle, and making an "ai" to play against. These were all things that I was very close to completing but was a few steps away when I got stumped, which frustrated me a little. First for the score it was as easy as it sounds; you just update the variable holding the score by += 1. Now I definetly understood how to do this after the countless assignments we've done in class (and I think the teacher would be genuinely concerned if I did not know how to do it). The only problem I had with this was where to put it in the code. Because pygame is constantly updating its screen, making a mistake on where to put the score updating mechanism could cause the score to infinitely increase (which happened to me). However as soon as I understood where to put it in my code, I could make it work. Secondly, collision was actually a lot easier than I thought it would be. Because of the way I originally started writing the code (without the tutorial), using circles and rectangles, I had an assumption that the collision wasn't actually detecting collision using something like collide.rect(), but instead took the positions of the objects. Now this was overcomplicating the collision a lot. In reality, I could just use collide.rect, because although the ball is drawn to be a circle, it has attributes of the Rect class (although its a whole other class itself). The fact that something I had learned in day 1 could be applicable here, but that I did not realize it, was very disappointing and lowered my self esteem that day. Finally, I made an "ai" to play against, which is much easier than it sounds. This is because all the "ai" does is that it follows the vertical position of the ball.

After some disappointment while coding, I discovered some possible issues that I ran into. First, the game is very easy; both against a player and the "ai". Now this issue has a lot of solutions. For example, I could make the speed of the ball increase every 5 collisions so it gradually speeds up making it easier to miss. However for playing against the "ai", I realized that because it just tracks that ball position, it is almost impossible for it to miss. My idea to solve this was to delay the movement of the ai, however when I tried to make it happen using delay, my whole game went very slow. Another issue I am having is with the collision, as collide.rect is a pretty simple way of dealing with collision. When the ball hits the bottom or upper side of the paddle, it will make a squiggly motion and go through the paddle, which counts as a lot of collisions and should not occur in the first place. Thinking back, this may be caused by a comparison operator such as > being represented as >= instead, but I am pretty sure that is not the case. Additionally, when the ball speed gets too high, the collision will not which is unfair.

My goal for the last few days is to try and fix the bugs, make the game a little more interesting, and adding a menu which can change betweent the game modes. Hopefully, I will get an adequate amount of time to work on this, even though finals has been causing a lot of stress and decrease in work time.
