---
layout: post
title: Day 1
---

(This post was made late)

12/09/2024, Monday:

Today is the first day that I started working on my project to build Pong using pygame. Because I am new to pygame, today's agenda was to watch a brief tutorial on pygame and try it out for myself. Usually, I would have needed to install pygame via the terminal/powershell, however I was able to skip this because I had installed it previously for another project. The tutorial I watched ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9VG3Pztok8](url)) explained how to make a simple program, that ran a window where the user could move a rectangle around using their keyboard. They explained each part of their code which fell into the three different parts of a pygame program: the window (screen), the game loop (which keeps the program running), and the event handler (which does stuff based on an event). A summary is in the day 1 section of this collab notebook: [https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VfMLmCqn9-63QzjpqCAOrS26k-RhOVjt?usp=sharing](url)

While watching the tutorial, I followed along and took notes, successfully creating a square that moves around within a screen. After watching the video, I thought I had a pretty good overall understanding of the different components, with some minor confusions. For example, the video explained to use .move_ip() to move the square, but I was not sure why this worked and not .move(). In what situation would .move() be used instead? Another confusion I had was why I could not recreate the same thing with a circle instead of a rectangle. However, after looking at the python documentation, I learned that circles are made slightly differently as they are a different shape from rectangles and have different information (like the center and its radius)

After watching the tutorial, I tried to edit the code so that when the spacebar was pressed, the rectangle would change colors. However, this was more challenging than I expected in multiple ways. First I tried re-defining the rectangle in the if-statement, but did not have much luck, which I believe was because the rectangle was defined back to its original definition after the loop begun again. Therefore, I decided to make a variable called color and set it to a tuple representing rbg. With this, I could redefine color in the if-statement, so that it would be the updated color when the loop restarted. This worked as I am now able to change the color of the square when I press the spacebar. The only thing that I want to fix about it now, is that the if-statement runs over and over again while I have the spacebar pressed, causing the square to take form in a bunch of different colors. I believe this has to do with the pygame.key.get_pressed being used to see if the key is being pressed, but I haven't found out for sure yet. Overall I had a fun time working with pygame, although I can see how it may get stressful in the future.

I think my next steps for this project is to work on the paddles because they aren't as complicated as the balls which have some complicated physics with the bouncing. I can already make the movement and paddles themselves, so I think my goal is to learn how I can keep it within the area of the screen and maybe even how collision works in pygame. 

