12/17/2024, Tuesday

Today I worked on implementing a main menu into my game to switch between one player and two player mode. To complete this, I first watched a youtube tutorial on creating pressable buttons, which required a button class. The class included code to convert images into buttons, drawing it, and making it so that when it is pressed it can do some sort of action. After implementing the button class, I messed around on my code and tried to make it so that it can switch screens. Surprisingly, I was able to succeed in doing so and created a play button. Just to make sure, I watched a tutorial on creating menus with these buttons to make some minor adjustments, so that my code works better.

During my time coding, I had a lot of problems and lessons learned. First, I struggled with "changing" the screen from one to another, such as from the main menu to the game. My idea was to make two buttons pop up when the escape key was pressed, with one sending the user to main menu and the other back to the game. However when I coded the buttons, althoguh the screen would freeze, the buttons would be on the same screen as the game (which is not what I wanted). After watching the tutorial, I realized that the buttons were not actually changing the screen from one to another, but just hiding the other screen by overlaying a new screen onto it. This made sense because the buttons were showing up on top of the screen with the pong game objects. With this logic, I looked back at the code I wrote when I initially set the screen to look how it is, and decided to refill the screen with the same color to make it appear blank. This method worked, and was in fact what the tutorial also used which made me happy. 

Another problem I was having was displaying the winner after one person reaches 5 points. I didn't realize this because I was happy that it was popping up onto the screen without issues, but I noticed that the player that was the winner was not who actually won at times. This was a simple mistake. Basically, I coded the ball so that it returns either a 1 or -1 once it scores, which represents the winner. Using this, I decided to use the value as an index from a two-length list which had strings saying that either player 1 won or player 2 won. Although I think this idea was good, I made a simple mistake which caused the error. Since it only has two elements, the index of 1 and -1 hold the same value, returning the wrong thing even if the winner was 1. Therefore, I decided to change the code so it returns 0 or -1, so the slicing is accurate. This mistake was very disappointing because we've dealt with string for so long and I made a mistake I wouldn't have made earlier this year. During this, I realized why it was difficult to center the words. When I give the words an x and y coordinate to display, it put the top left of the first letter on that coordinate. I had been noticing that my words were often shifted to the right, but I finally understood why, which made me a it proud.

Finally, I realized that my code was getting a bit messy. Because I was adding game_states and new variables to tell the code where it is, my code was getting a bit messy. This along with the many branching caused to switch between game_states has created complexion to the code.

Making my code neater is something I want to do to finish up this assignment, along with adding some small adjustments. I'm also working on the slides for the presentation which is coming up and making me a bit stressed.

(Update on 12/18/2024)

Here is the link to my Pong game:

This is the final Day of this project:

Here is the link to my Pong game file:

https://github.com/yutoi2/yutoi2.github.io/blob/7daeb99dcfb9e604d4e34a5b057d3ee2822ca7cd/files/menu.py
