12/13/2024, Friday:

Today I watched the pong tutorial on making the paddle ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8MxbdZPMzs4&list=PLjcN1EyupaQnB9-Ovkisq0Ss-1u0gOAv4&index=2](url)). When I watched the videos, I was partially surprised that they do similar things that I did when making my paddle, which showed me that I did understand what I had learned (yay). One key difference was that the tutorial video made a class for the paddle which made things a lot more convinient. This helped a lot because they could define functions for movement, drawing, and defining those objects, which made the code more clear. However since class was still a thing we had learned a bit a few days ago, I sometimes discussed my code with a friend to make sure I understood correctly. The video covered creating a paddle, its movement, and restricting height (so it doesn't go off the screen).

I think today I was able to get a better understanding of classes as I was using them with explanation from the tutorial. I also have become more comfortable with pygame and pygame methods. Most of the time I was excited because my code was looking more and more like pong, but I also had some confusion. For example, the tutorial defined and used fps in order to slow down speeds of objects. Although it was explained briefly, I still don't know why that was necessary and why they couldn't have just lowered the initial speed (that's how I did it before watching tutorial) Also it caused my paddles to not move well which annoyed me. After making the paddle, I wanted to try to make the ball. For this I used pygame.draw.circle() which I had learned from the documentation. I was originally looking for a class for circles (like how rectangles have Rect) but did not have much luck. To make my code look more like pong, I made a ball that moves from one side of the screen and bounces back to the other side. I was surprised when my code worked because I was expecting it not to. This gave me confidence to code the bouncing of the ball off the paddle. Because circles did not have a collision method like Rect, I thought I could see if a side of the circle was at the same x value as a side of the paddle and also see if the balls height was in the range of the paddles height. Little did I know at the time, that I was overcomplicating it.

After this, I went on and watched the tutorial on making the pong ball. This tutorial also used class which made me feel like I should review it some more, causing me to go back to Training 27 for a bit. The video covered similar topics to the paddles as they were actually more common than different. I tried coding the collision that I was thinking of, but I couldn't get it to work. While trying my implementation of the collision, Python kept crasing on some attempts which is why I called it a day. I plan to try to learn how to make collision work tomorrow as part of my goal. I also want to learn how to increase the score as when I tried to do that by simply adding += 1 to the variable, my code caused the score to infinitely increase.

To end this post, I just want to share something that I was shocked to see. During the tutorial when I was following along, the code shown was updating that value of the variable. At first glance it looked like += but it looked a bit different, and when I took a closer look, I found out that it was actually *=. Now I didn't know this existed, so even though that was the only time I used it today, I was super amazed by its existence. I learned that I still have a lot to learn, and that concludes this post.
